Healthy Oat Crepes
Healthy Oat Crepes – a nutritious crepe made from oat flour, low fat milk, eggs, and a few other staple ingredients. They come together quickly and are a great way to start the day!

Looking for more ways to use oat flour? Also try my ever so delicious Oat Flour Pancakes.

These incredibly delicious and completely satisfying oat flour crepes have been a go-to recipe for our family for a few years, in fact I make them far more than traditional crepes.

Over the past few years I’ve realized I don’t care much for the texture of morning oatmeal but I do however love the flavor of oatmeal. So a great solution is to turn oats into something that some of us may consider to have a much better texture such as pancakes, baked oats and these crepes.

Also, I think most of us are still cooking and baking with primarily white flour but I think it could be good for us to learn how to incorporate some healthier alternatives like oat flour into our diet.

I love this recipe for several reasons. You make the batter quickly in a blender, you don’t have to wait 1 hour for the batter to rest like traditional crepes, and they are also a healthier alternative to traditional crepes made up of primarily of white flour.

This recipe took some testing and modifying over time. I originally started out trying to use only oat flour as the base but the crepes would always tear and didn’t hold together well. I found that with just a few tablespoons of white flour (or even a gluten free blend) this did the trick to bind them. We also preferred them with cow’s milk over a dairy free alternative for thickness and flavor.

We love to serve them with blueberry syrup (which I now usually make with real maple syrup as the sweetener) or raspberry syrup, but they are good enough plain on their own for a lower sugar alternative. You could even serve them as a savory option with eggs.

They keep well in the fridge for a few days so you can have a cooked breakfast already made. It’s a wholesome breakfast you can feel great about serving and enjoying!

https://www.homemademastery.com/easy-oatmeal-crepes-recipe/

Oat Flour Crepes Recipe Ingredients
Low fat milk
Eggs
Real maple syrup
Vanilla extract
Oat flour
All purpose flour
Salt
Melted butter (can use olive oil or melted coconut oil)
Avocado oil cooking spray

Equipment Needed
Blender: I recommend a high speed blender for easy prep but if you don’t have one you can just whisk the mixture together well for about 1 minute.
Non-stick pan: You don’t need a fancy crepe pan or crepe maker for this recipe, a 10-inch non-stick pan works great. I like the heavier T-fal pans for crepes.


Can I Make My Own Oat Flour?
I don’t recommend using whole oats and grinding in a food processor because it won’t be fine enough for this recipe. If you have a flour grinder then that would work fine, just measure after grinding.

Making Healthy Crepes Gluten Free
To make these gluten free simply replace white flour with a gluten free flour blend such as Bob’s Red Mill 1:1. Note that they are a bit more delicate so just be careful when turning.

Then as always just ensure other ingredients (such as the oat flour) is packaged in a gluten free facility without cross contamination if there’s a severe gluten allergy.

Storing and Reheating Crepes
Let crepes cool.
These oat crepes can be folded and even layered to store.
Keep them in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 4 days.
Freeze for up to 3 months, if freezing put parchment between them to easily remove how many you want to use each time. Thaw in the fridge overnight if frozen.
Reheat crepes in the microwave for about 15 to 30 seconds until warmed through.

https://kasias-plate.co.uk/easy-gluten-free-oat-flour-crepes/
Recommend Toppings for Healthy Crepes
Low sugar syrup or jam
Fresh fruit such as berries, peaches, mangos or bananas
Yogurt
Honey or real maple syrup
Nut butter such as runny almond butter or peanut butter
Scrambled eggs
